README.markdown, before:

Imgv - cross-platform image viewer.

Latest Version: 3.1.8

ABOUT
=====
Imgv is a image viewer with an opinionated interface - meaning that certain
features were added or are missing intentionally. Its main opinion is that screen
real-estate is most important and so the interface tries to stay out of your way. 

The viewer also cares about privacy and so it doesn't cache your images and it
even has the ability to temporarily 'hide' what you're viewing.

It also has very flexible viewing options, such as the ability to view 4
images at a time, and view/download from URLs.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
===================
- python 2.2 or higher
- pygame
- python-imaging (PIL)

The operating system doesn't matter as long as you have the above requirements.
Thus it should work on Linux, Mac OS X, Windows, etc.


INSTALLING
==========

INSTALLING FOM SOURCE CODE
---------------------------
The easiest way to install imgv from source is to just run:

    $ python setup.py install

If you don't have distutils or if you don't want to install it that way. You
can do it manually:

Add /path/to/imgv to your $PYTHONPATH from the root of the package run:

    $ bin/imgv

or better yet, the script 'imgv' from the bin/ directory into a directory in 
your $PATH, such as ~/bin, or add /path/to/imgv/bin/ to your path, so you can
then invoke it as simply:

    $ imgv

The first time you run imgv, it will create the directory "$HOME/.imgv" and put
a sub-directory called "data" in it. If you want to use a different location for
the imgv home folder, then move $HOME/.imgv somewhere else and create an 
environment variable called IMGV_HOME. In linux this means opening your 
bash_profile (or the equivalent depending on your shell)
    
    $ mv ~/.imgv /whatever
    $ export IMGV_HOME="/whatever/.imgv"


INSTALLING ON WINDOWS
---------------------
If you're using MS-Windows and you unpacked imgv in C:\Program Files\imgv then 
search the internet for how to change environment variables in your particular
version of windows, or do it the old fashioned way and edit autoexe.bat:

    set IMGV_HOME=C:\Program Files\imgv

Reboot for changes to take affect.


USAGE
=====
- Imgv also takes optional command-line arguments:

    $ imgv [directory|image|remote image]

  If you're in Windows and have the executable binary version "imgv.exe" Click on
  imgv from the start menu if it was installed there.  Or in a cmd prompt type:

    C:\"Program Files"\imgv> imgv.exe [directory|image|remote image|movie]

- When you right click in imgv a menu pops up. Simply click on what you
  want to do. (Clicking your middle mouse button will close the menu)

- Or you can use the keyboard to operate imgv press 'h' from inside imgv
  to get a list of keys supported and their functions. 


Loading images from web sites
-----------------------------
Imgv allows the loading of remote images by forming a name like:

    imgv http://www.site.com/bla.jpg

When imgv is running you can click the 'Open URL' menu option and enter a valid
URL for imgv to extract images from such as:

    http://www.site.com/  (you usually need that appended / for this to work)
    http://www.site.com/foo.html
    http://www.site.com/bla.jpg

Playlists
---------
In order for the play list feature to work you always must have a file named 
'playlists' in the data/ directory (the default).  If you want to create new 
playlists and/or edit them manually using your text editor you need to put the
name of the play list on its own line in the 'playlists' file and also create a
file with the name of the playlist. Make sure there are NO blank lines in either
file. I recommend only using imgv to handle all the playlist stuff but this way 
can be faster.

To create a new playlist manually:

    cd data/
    echo "new playlist name" >> playlists
    touch "new playlist name"
    
To add new images to a play list manually:

    cd data/    
    echo "/home/user/pics/bla.jpg" >> "play list name"

Configuration
=============
In the data/ directory there is a file called 'imgv.conf'.  This is a 
configuration file for imgv that allows you to customize imgv to your needs.

IMGV will first look in your home directory for a file named .imgv.conf (which
you should create by copying the one from the data/ directory to your home
directory). If IMGV could not find .imgv.conf in your home directory it will 
then look for imgv.conf in your data/ directory.  If you have both .imgv.conf
in your home directory and imgv.conf in the data directory IMGV will use the
one in your home directory.

Contact
=======
If you have questions email me at: rkulla@gmail.com

IMGV's homepage is: http://imgv.sf.net/

Commit message:

Changed how imgv.conf is installed and loaded

README.markdown, after:

Imgv - cross-platform image viewer.

Latest Version: 3.1.8

ABOUT
=====
Imgv is a image viewer with an opinionated interface - meaning that certain
features were added or are missing intentionally. Its main opinion is that screen
real-estate is most important and so the interface tries to stay out of your way. 

The viewer also cares about privacy and so it doesn't cache your images and it
even has the ability to temporarily 'hide' what you're viewing.

It also has very flexible viewing options, such as the ability to view 4
images at a time, and view/download from URLs.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
===================
- python 2.2 or higher
- pygame
- python-imaging (PIL)

The operating system doesn't matter as long as you have the above requirements.
Thus it should work on Linux, Mac OS X, Windows, etc.


INSTALLING
==========

INSTALLING FOM SOURCE CODE
---------------------------
The easiest way to install imgv from source is to just run:

    $ python setup.py install


If you don't have distutils, or if you don't want to install it that way, you
can do it manually:

add /path/to/imgv to your $PYTHONPATH from the root of the package run:

    $ bin/imgv

or better yet, the script 'imgv' from the bin/ directory into a directory in 
your $PATH, such as ~/bin, or add /path/to/imgv/bin/ to your path, so you can
then invoke it as simply:

    $ imgv


The first time you run imgv, it will create the directory "$HOME/.imgv" and put
a sub-directory called "data" in it. If you want to use a different location for
the imgv home folder, then move $HOME/.imgv somewhere else and create an 
environment variable called IMGV_HOME. In linux this means opening your 
bash_profile (or the equivalent depending on your shell)
    
    $ mv ~/.imgv /whatever
    $ export IMGV_HOME="/whatever/.imgv"

You can also copy imgv.conf to the root of the IMGV_HOME directory to have imgv
read it from there from now on.


INSTALLING ON WINDOWS
---------------------
If you're using MS-Windows and you unpacked imgv in C:\Program Files\imgv then 
search the internet for how to change environment variables in your particular
version of windows, or do it the old fashioned way and edit autoexe.bat:

    set IMGV_HOME=C:\Program Files\imgv

Reboot for changes to take affect.


USAGE
=====
- Imgv also takes optional command-line arguments:

    $ imgv [directory|image|remote image]

  If you're in Windows and have the executable binary version "imgv.exe" Click on
  imgv from the start menu if it was installed there.  Or in a cmd prompt type:

    C:\"Program Files"\imgv> imgv.exe [directory|image|remote image|movie]

- When you right click in imgv a menu pops up. Simply click on what you
  want to do. (Clicking your middle mouse button will close the menu)

- Or you can use the keyboard to operate imgv press 'h' from inside imgv
  to get a list of keys supported and their functions. 


Loading images from web sites
-----------------------------
Imgv allows the loading of remote images by forming a name like:

    imgv http://www.site.com/bla.jpg

When imgv is running you can click the 'Open URL' menu option and enter a valid
URL for imgv to extract images from such as:

    http://www.site.com/  (you usually need that appended / for this to work)
    http://www.site.com/foo.html
    http://www.site.com/bla.jpg

Playlists
---------
In order for the play list feature to work you always must have a file named 
'playlists' in the data/ directory (the default).  If you want to create new 
playlists and/or edit them manually using your text editor you need to put the
name of the play list on its own line in the 'playlists' file and also create a
file with the name of the playlist. Make sure there are NO blank lines in either
file. I recommend only using imgv to handle all the playlist stuff but this way 
can be faster.

To create a new playlist manually:

    cd data/
    echo "new playlist name" >> playlists
    touch "new playlist name"
    
To add new images to a play list manually:

    cd data/    
    echo "/home/user/pics/bla.jpg" >> "play list name"

Configuration
=============
You can edit the 'imgv.conf' configuration file customize imgv.

If you ran setup.py then it will be in your IMGV_HOME, e.g., $HOME/.imgv/

If you have used the Windows Installer from version 1.3.6 or below, then
it will be in the data/ folder where imgv was installed.

Contact
=======
If you have questions email me at: rkulla@gmail.com

IMGV's homepage is: http://imgv.sf.net/
